---
title: 'One Year at College Board'
description:
  'Over the past year at the College Board, I‚Äôve grown both technically and
  personally, thanks to meaningful work and a supportive team. Attending the
  Hackathon pushed me out of my comfort zone, but I walked away with new
  connections, new skills, and a lot more confidence. It was a rewarding
  reminder that growth often happens when you show up, try, and trust that you
  belong.'
published: 2025-01-27T01:30:00+0000
tags: []
---

I can't believe I've been at the College Board for a little over a year already.
Between having two kiddos in grade school and a job that challenges and rewards
me daily, time really does fly. Be forewarned, this post might come off like I'm
drinking the CB KoolAid üßÉ, but it's a little hard not to when an organization
genuinely takes great care of its people and treats them like, well, _people_.

## Growth as an Engineer _and_ as a Person

Over the past year, I've been lucky to grow not only as an engineer, but also as
a human bean ü´ò. I've learned a great deal from working with truly talented
engineers, managers, and product owners. I've been mentored by brilliant folks,
had the chance to contribute to complex systems that operate at an incredible
scale, and have had the opportunity to teach others and share my unique
perspective. The work never feels monotonous; there's always something new to
learn, a fresh problem to solve, or someone to support.

One of the most memorable experiences this past year was attending the bi-annual
**Pencil's Down** conference (Or is it semi-annual? I can never remember. The
one that means every two years). It was meaningful not just for me, but for my
wife and kids too. We got to explore Philadelphia together as a family, a city
none of us had ever visited. (It was also the furthest east any of us has ever
been, don't judge us for how little we travel üòÖ) I connected in person with
teammates I'd only known through a screen, and got to hear from students about
their experiences with our organization's products. The whole trip blended
professional connection with personal enrichment, and it reinforced for me how
working as a software engineer is about so much more than solving purely
technical challenges.

## Overcoming Fear and Anxiety Leading Up to the Hackathon

More recently, I had the chance to attend the annual Hackathon. This was a
fantastic opportunity that, for me, came with quite a bit of personal challenge.
I'm naturally a bit of a hermit (let's be honest, a **lot** of a hermit), and
the thought of traveling to an unfamiliar place and mingling with hundreds of
colleagues had me more than a _little_ anxious üò¨. I definitely spent about ten
minutes the first morning in my hotel room taking deep slow breaths to calm my
nerves to try and avoid flooding the entire ballroom with my armpit sweat.

I had to keep reminding myself that, given this was going to be a room full of
mostly engineers and technical workers, many others were likely feeling similar
anxiety. I had to quiet the part of me telling me that I had nothing to offer,
that I'd bring little to the table, or that I was just downright unlikeable üëø.
I wondered if my teammates would be way smarter than me or think less of me for
not being a golden god of coding. But I did my best to set that aside to focus
on showing up, being helpful where I could, and trusting that everyone brings
something unique to the table, including me. I tried to focus more on what I
could learn from my teammates than remain hung up on whether or not they could
learn anything from me or like me as a person.

To my relief, I met a lot of smart, kind, and approachable people. Conversations
mostly flowed easily, not just about code and tech, but about life in general.
We connected with each other about our families, hobbies, interests and shared
values. That human connection made the experience infinitely more enriching than
a purely technical exercise. The hackathon environment itself was incredibly
supportive, in that it was an invitation to experiment, try new things, and be
okay with failure. Knowing that the challenges were to stir the pot on potential
future real-world solutions, I followed a mantra of "this is the one you throw
away," which was liberating and took the pressure off, clean coding be damned.
(You do **not** want to see how ugly my CSS rules were to get that lipstick on
the UI üíÑ)

I got to bump elbows with some of the senior leadership. They were refreshingly
down-to-earth, and I was especially impressed when they made a point to thank
the hotel staff during speeches. That kind of awareness and humility speaks
volumes to me about the character of a person.

## Hackathon Takeaways

While I can‚Äôt dive into specifics, I had a blast exploring some new tools and
building a solution with the team over the course of only a few days. We didn't
win any big prizes, but we built something genuinely cool, something we were
proud of, and we all stretched ourselves in the process.

One area I'm planning to reflect more on is how we presented our project. I'd
crammed for the exam by reading "Own the Room" a day before heading to the
event, and think it helped a tiny bit to be aware of some tools and techniques,
but I will definitely need some more chances to work those muscles before the
information really sticks and I can flex them üí™. When engineers present a
solution to other engineers, we tend to lose sight of some of the more
social/psychological factors that go into making a persuasive business
presentation, so that's something I'd like to improve on not only for the
hackathon events but in general.

## Looking Ahead

By the end of the hackathon, I was so mentally and socially exhausted, I gave
myself a day to decompress and recover. Even so, I'm already looking forward to
the next one and other events like it. I hope I get the chance to attend again
next year, with fewer nerves and more confidence to help others attending for
the first time to feel welcome and encouraged.

All in all, the hackathon was a truly rewarding experience. I'm grateful to have
been a part of it, to have pushed myself outside my comfort zone, and to have
met so many wonderful people along the way. I encourage any engineer who has
never attended one to give it a shot the next time the opportunity arises.

## Conclusion

Over the past year at the College Board, I've grown both technically and
personally, thanks to meaningful work and a supportive team. Attending the
Hackathon pushed me out of my comfort zone, but I walked away with new
connections, new skills, and a lot more confidence. It was a rewarding reminder
that growth often happens when you show up, try, and trust that you belong.

Here's to another year üçª
